docs/Subscription-Vending/Managing-Subscription-Vending.md, before:

# Managing Subscription Vending

This guide covers best practices and procedures for managing subscriptions created through the subscription vending process.

## Ongoing Management Tasks

### Viewing Subscription Details

Check subscription information:

```bash
# Get subscription details
az account show \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --output json

# List all subscriptions
az account list \
  --output table

# Get subscription by alias
az account alias show \
  --name subcr-hub-live-cac-001

# List subscriptions in a management group
az account management-group subscription list \
  --name <management-group-id> \
  --output table
```

### Viewing Deployment History

Check the deployment that created the subscription:

```bash
# List management group deployments
az deployment mg list \
  --management-group-id <tenant-id-or-management-group-id> \
  --output table

# Get specific deployment details
az deployment mg show \
  --name 'sub-vending-hub-live-cac-001' \
  --management-group-id <tenant-id-or-management-group-id> \
  --output json
```

### Updating Subscription Tags

Update tags on existing subscriptions:

```bash
# Update subscription tags
az account update \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --set tags.Project=hub tags.Environment=prod tags.Owner='new-owner@organization.com'

# Add a new tag
az account update \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --set tags.NewTag='value'

# Remove a tag
az account update \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --remove tags.OldTag
```

### Moving Subscriptions Between Management Groups

Move a subscription to a different management group:

```bash
# Move subscription to a new management group
az account management-group subscription add \
  --name <target-management-group-id> \
  --subscription <subscription-id>

# Remove subscription from current management group (if needed)
az account management-group subscription remove \
  --name <source-management-group-id> \
  --subscription <subscription-id>
```

**Note**: Subscriptions can only be in one management group at a time. Moving a subscription will change policy inheritance and governance.

## Best Practices

### 1. Naming Convention

- **Consistency**: Always follow the `subcr-<workloadAlias>-<env>-<loc>-<instance>` pattern
- **Documentation**: Document the intent of each subscription
- **Avoid Conflicts**: Use unique instance numbers for each workloadAlias/environment combination
- **Review Regularly**: Periodically review subscription names for consistency

### 2. Management Group Placement

- **Organizational Alignment**: Place subscriptions in management groups that reflect organizational structure
- **Policy Inheritance**: Understand how policies from the management group affect the subscription
- **Governance**: Ensure management group placement aligns with governance requirements
- **Documentation**: Document why each subscription is in its management group

### 3. Tagging

- **Complete Information**: Ensure all required tags are present and accurate
- **Consistency**: Use consistent tag values across all subscriptions
- **Owner Updates**: Update owner tags when ownership changes
- **Regular Audits**: Periodically audit tags for accuracy and completeness

### 4. Billing and Cost Management

- **Billing Scope**: Verify billing scope is correctly configured for EA/MCA scenarios
- **Cost Allocation**: Use tags for cost allocation and chargeback
- **Budgets**: Set up budgets and alerts for subscriptions
- **Regular Reviews**: Review costs regularly and optimize spending

### 5. Access Control

- **RBAC**: Configure role-based access control appropriately
- **Least Privilege**: Grant minimum required permissions
- **Regular Reviews**: Periodically review access assignments
- **Documentation**: Document who has access and why

### 6. Subscription Lifecycle

- **Documentation**: Maintain documentation for each subscription
- **Workload Tracking**: Track the workload alias and owner of each subscription
- **Decommissioning**: Have a process for decommissioning unused subscriptions
- **Renaming**: Avoid renaming subscriptions after creation (use tags for additional context)

## Common Management Scenarios

### Scenario 1: Updating Subscription Owner

**Requirement**: Change the owner tag when ownership changes

**Solution**:
```bash
az account update \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --set tags.Owner='new-owner@organization.com'
```

### Scenario 2: Moving Subscription to Different Management Group

**Requirement**: Move a subscription to a different management group for organizational changes

**Solution**:
```bash
# Move to new management group
az account management-group subscription add \
  --name <new-management-group-id> \
  --subscription <subscription-id>
```

**Considerations**:
- Policies from the new management group will apply
- Policies from the old management group will no longer apply
- Verify policy impact before moving

### Scenario 3: Adding Additional Tags

**Requirement**: Add custom tags for additional categorization

**Solution**:
```bash
az account update \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --set tags.CostCenter='IT-001' tags.BusinessUnit='Engineering'
```

### Scenario 4: Updating Billing Scope

**Requirement**: Change billing scope for EA/MCA scenarios

**Note**: Billing scope cannot be changed after subscription creation through the vending process. This requires:
- Canceling and recreating the subscription (not recommended)
- Using Azure billing APIs (requires appropriate permissions)
- Contacting Azure support

### Scenario 5: Renaming Subscription Display Name

**Requirement**: Update the human-readable display name

**Solution**:
```bash
az account update \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --name 'New Display Name'
```

**Note**: The subscription alias cannot be changed after creation.

### Scenario 6: Canceling a Subscription

**Requirement**: Cancel an unused subscription

**Solution**:
```bash
# Cancel subscription (requires subscription-level permissions)
az account cancel \
  --subscription <subscription-id>
```

**Considerations**:
- Ensure all resources are deleted or migrated
- Verify no critical workloads depend on the subscription
- Update documentation
- Consider moving to a decommissioned management group first

## Monitoring and Maintenance

### Regular Reviews

| Frequency | Task |
|-----------|------|
| Weekly | Review new subscriptions created |
| Monthly | Audit subscription tags and ownership |
| Quarterly | Review subscription placement in management groups |
| Annually | Review subscription lifecycle and decommission unused subscriptions |

### Health Checks

```bash
# Verify subscription is active
az account show \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --query "{Name:name, State:state, TenantId:tenantId}"

# Check subscription tags
az account show \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --query tags \
  --output json

# Verify management group assignment
az account management-group subscription show \
  --name <management-group-id> \
  --subscription <subscription-id>

# Check subscription alias
az account alias show \
  --name subcr-hub-live-cac-001
```

### Cost Monitoring Queries

Use Azure Cost Management for subscription cost analysis:

```bash
# Get subscription costs
az consumption usage list \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --start-date <start-date> \
  --end-date <end-date>

# List cost by tag
az consumption usage list \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --query "[?tags.Project=='hub']"
```

## Updating AVM Module

When a new version of the Azure Verified Module sub-vending pattern is available:

1. **Check Current Version**: Review `sub-vending.bicep` for the current module version
2. **Find Latest Version**: Check the [Azure/bicep-registry-modules](https://github.com/Azure/bicep-registry-modules) repository
3. **Review Changes**: Check the module's `version.json` and changelog
4. **Update Reference**: Update the module version in the Bicep file
5. **Test**: Run the pipeline with `Validation` and `WhatIf` stages
6. **Deploy**: Run the pipeline with `Deploy` stage for new subscriptions

**Note**: Updating the AVM module version only affects new subscriptions. Existing subscriptions are not modified.

Example update:
```bicep
// From:
module subVending 'br/public:avm/ptn/lz/sub-vending:0.5.0' = {

// To:
module subVending 'br/public:avm/ptn/lz/sub-vending:0.6.0' = {
```

## Troubleshooting

### Subscription Not Appearing in Management Group

1. **Check Deployment**: Verify the deployment completed successfully
2. **Verify Management Group**: Ensure the management group ID is correct
3. **Check Permissions**: Verify you have permissions to view the management group
4. **Wait for Propagation**: Management group assignments may take a few minutes

```bash
# Verify subscription is in management group
az account management-group subscription show \
  --name <management-group-id> \
  --subscription <subscription-id>
```

### Tags Not Applied

1. **Check Deployment Outputs**: Verify the deployment completed successfully
2. **Verify Tag Values**: Check tag values don't contain invalid characters
3. **Check Tag Limits**: Ensure you're not exceeding 50 tags per subscription
4. **Manual Application**: Apply tags manually if needed

```bash
# Check current tags
az account show \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --query tags

# Apply tags manually
az account update \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --set tags.Project=hub tags.Environment=prod
```

### Subscription Alias Issues

1. **Verify Alias**: Check the alias was created correctly
2. **Check Uniqueness**: Ensure the alias is unique
3. **List Aliases**: View all subscription aliases

```bash
# List all subscription aliases
az account alias list \
  --output table

# Show specific alias
az account alias show \
  --name subcr-hub-live-cac-001
```

### Billing Scope Issues

1. **Verify Format**: Check billing scope format is correct
2. **Check Permissions**: Ensure you have billing account permissions
3. **Verify Billing Account**: Confirm billing account and invoice section exist
4. **Contact Support**: Billing scope changes may require Azure support

### Access Issues

1. **Check RBAC**: Verify role assignments on the subscription
2. **Verify Management Group**: Check management group permissions
3. **Check Tenant**: Ensure you're in the correct tenant
4. **Review Permissions**: Verify you have appropriate permissions

```bash
# List role assignments on subscription
az role assignment list \
  --scope /subscriptions/<subscription-id> \
  --output table

# Check your access
az account show \
  --subscription <subscription-id>
```

## Related Documentation

- [Subscription Vending Overview](Subscription-Vending-Overview.md)
- [Deploying Subscription Vending](Deploying-Subscription-Vending.md)
- [Azure Subscription Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cost-management-billing/manage/)
- [Azure Management Groups](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/governance/management-groups/)
- [Azure Verified Modules](https://github.com/Azure/bicep-registry-modules)

Commit message:

Refactor subscription vending implementation to use direct Bicep resource definitions, abandoning the Azure Verified Module due to critical API version issues. Update documentation and pipeline to reflect tenant scope deployment, enhancing clarity and usability for subscription management.

docs/Subscription-Vending/Managing-Subscription-Vending.md, after:

# Managing Subscription Vending

This guide covers best practices and procedures for managing subscriptions created through the subscription vending process.

## Ongoing Management Tasks

### Viewing Subscription Details

Check subscription information:

```bash
# Get subscription details
az account show \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --output json

# List all subscriptions
az account list \
  --output table

# Get subscription by alias
az account alias show \
  --name subcr-hub-live-cac-001

# List subscriptions in a management group
az account management-group subscription list \
  --name <management-group-id> \
  --output table
```

### Viewing Deployment History

Check the deployment that created the subscription:

```bash
# List tenant-level deployments
az deployment tenant list \
  --output table

# Get specific deployment details
az deployment tenant show \
  --name 'sub-vending-<build-number>' \
  --output json
```

### Updating Subscription Tags

Update tags on existing subscriptions:

```bash
# Update subscription tags
az account update \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --set tags.Project=hub tags.Environment=prod tags.Owner='new-owner@organization.com'

# Add a new tag
az account update \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --set tags.NewTag='value'

# Remove a tag
az account update \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --remove tags.OldTag
```

### Moving Subscriptions Between Management Groups

Move a subscription to a different management group:

```bash
# Move subscription to a new management group
az account management-group subscription add \
  --name <target-management-group-id> \
  --subscription <subscription-id>

# Remove subscription from current management group (if needed)
az account management-group subscription remove \
  --name <source-management-group-id> \
  --subscription <subscription-id>
```

**Note**: Subscriptions can only be in one management group at a time. Moving a subscription will change policy inheritance and governance.

## Best Practices

### 1. Naming Convention

- **Consistency**: Always follow the `subcr-<workloadAlias>-<env>-<loc>-<instance>` pattern
- **Documentation**: Document the intent of each subscription
- **Avoid Conflicts**: Use unique instance numbers for each workloadAlias/environment combination
- **Review Regularly**: Periodically review subscription names for consistency

### 2. Management Group Placement

- **Organizational Alignment**: Place subscriptions in management groups that reflect organizational structure
- **Policy Inheritance**: Understand how policies from the management group affect the subscription
- **Governance**: Ensure management group placement aligns with governance requirements
- **Documentation**: Document why each subscription is in its management group

### 3. Tagging

- **Complete Information**: Ensure all required tags are present and accurate
- **Consistency**: Use consistent tag values across all subscriptions
- **Owner Updates**: Update owner tags when ownership changes
- **Regular Audits**: Periodically audit tags for accuracy and completeness

### 4. Billing and Cost Management

- **Billing Scope**: Verify billing scope is correctly configured for EA/MCA scenarios
- **Cost Allocation**: Use tags for cost allocation and chargeback
- **Budgets**: Set up budgets and alerts for subscriptions
- **Regular Reviews**: Review costs regularly and optimize spending

### 5. Access Control

- **RBAC**: Configure role-based access control appropriately
- **Least Privilege**: Grant minimum required permissions
- **Regular Reviews**: Periodically review access assignments
- **Documentation**: Document who has access and why

### 6. Subscription Lifecycle

- **Documentation**: Maintain documentation for each subscription
- **Workload Tracking**: Track the workload alias and owner of each subscription
- **Decommissioning**: Have a process for decommissioning unused subscriptions
- **Renaming**: Avoid renaming subscriptions after creation (use tags for additional context)

## Common Management Scenarios

### Scenario 1: Updating Subscription Owner

**Requirement**: Change the owner tag when ownership changes

**Solution**:
```bash
az account update \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --set tags.Owner='new-owner@organization.com'
```

### Scenario 2: Moving Subscription to Different Management Group

**Requirement**: Move a subscription to a different management group for organizational changes

**Solution**:
```bash
# Move to new management group
az account management-group subscription add \
  --name <new-management-group-id> \
  --subscription <subscription-id>
```

**Considerations**:
- Policies from the new management group will apply
- Policies from the old management group will no longer apply
- Verify policy impact before moving

### Scenario 3: Adding Additional Tags

**Requirement**: Add custom tags for additional categorization

**Solution**:
```bash
az account update \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --set tags.CostCenter='IT-001' tags.BusinessUnit='Engineering'
```

### Scenario 4: Updating Billing Scope

**Requirement**: Change billing scope for EA/MCA scenarios

**Note**: Billing scope cannot be changed after subscription creation through the vending process. This requires:
- Canceling and recreating the subscription (not recommended)
- Using Azure billing APIs (requires appropriate permissions)
- Contacting Azure support

### Scenario 5: Renaming Subscription Display Name

**Requirement**: Update the human-readable display name

**Solution**:
```bash
az account update \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --name 'New Display Name'
```

**Note**: The subscription alias cannot be changed after creation.

### Scenario 6: Canceling a Subscription

**Requirement**: Cancel an unused subscription

**Solution**:
```bash
# Cancel subscription (requires subscription-level permissions)
az account cancel \
  --subscription <subscription-id>
```

**Considerations**:
- Ensure all resources are deleted or migrated
- Verify no critical workloads depend on the subscription
- Update documentation
- Consider moving to a decommissioned management group first

## Monitoring and Maintenance

### Regular Reviews

| Frequency | Task |
|-----------|------|
| Weekly | Review new subscriptions created |
| Monthly | Audit subscription tags and ownership |
| Quarterly | Review subscription placement in management groups |
| Annually | Review subscription lifecycle and decommission unused subscriptions |

### Health Checks

```bash
# Verify subscription is active
az account show \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --query "{Name:name, State:state, TenantId:tenantId}"

# Check subscription tags
az account show \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --query tags \
  --output json

# Verify management group assignment
az account management-group subscription show \
  --name <management-group-id> \
  --subscription <subscription-id>

# Check subscription alias
az account alias show \
  --name subcr-hub-live-cac-001
```

### Cost Monitoring Queries

Use Azure Cost Management for subscription cost analysis:

```bash
# Get subscription costs
az consumption usage list \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --start-date <start-date> \
  --end-date <end-date>

# List cost by tag
az consumption usage list \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --query "[?tags.Project=='hub']"
```

## Implementation Notes

This implementation uses direct Bicep resource definitions rather than the Azure Verified Module (AVM) sub-vending pattern. The AVM module was abandoned due to a critical bug where it referenced an invalid API version (`2025-04-01`) for `Microsoft.Management/managementGroups`.

### API Versions Used

| Resource Type | API Version | Purpose |
|---------------|-------------|---------|
| `Microsoft.Subscription/aliases` | `2024-08-01-preview` | Subscription creation |
| `Microsoft.Management/managementGroups/subscriptions` | `2024-02-01-preview` | Management group association |
| `Microsoft.Management/managementGroups` | `2023-04-01` | Management group reference |

### Updating API Versions

When updating API versions in the Bicep template:

1. **Check Azure Documentation**: Verify the new API version is available and stable
2. **Test**: Run the pipeline with `Validation` and `WhatIf` stages
3. **Deploy**: Run the pipeline with `Deploy` stage for new subscriptions

**Note**: API version updates only affect new deployments. Existing subscriptions are not modified.

## Troubleshooting

### Subscription Not Appearing in Management Group

1. **Check Deployment**: Verify the deployment completed successfully
2. **Verify Management Group**: Ensure the management group ID is correct
3. **Check Permissions**: Verify you have permissions to view the management group
4. **Wait for Propagation**: Management group assignments may take a few minutes

```bash
# Verify subscription is in management group
az account management-group subscription show \
  --name <management-group-id> \
  --subscription <subscription-id>
```

### Tags Not Applied

1. **Check Deployment Outputs**: Verify the deployment completed successfully
2. **Verify Tag Values**: Check tag values don't contain invalid characters
3. **Check Tag Limits**: Ensure you're not exceeding 50 tags per subscription
4. **Manual Application**: Apply tags manually if needed

```bash
# Check current tags
az account show \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --query tags

# Apply tags manually
az account update \
  --subscription <subscription-id> \
  --set tags.Project=hub tags.Environment=prod
```

### Subscription Alias Issues

1. **Verify Alias**: Check the alias was created correctly
2. **Check Uniqueness**: Ensure the alias is unique
3. **List Aliases**: View all subscription aliases

```bash
# List all subscription aliases
az account alias list \
  --output table

# Show specific alias
az account alias show \
  --name subcr-hub-live-cac-001
```

### Billing Scope Issues

1. **Verify Format**: Check billing scope format is correct
2. **Check Permissions**: Ensure you have billing account permissions
3. **Verify Billing Account**: Confirm billing account and invoice section exist
4. **Contact Support**: Billing scope changes may require Azure support

### Access Issues

1. **Check RBAC**: Verify role assignments on the subscription
2. **Verify Management Group**: Check management group permissions
3. **Check Tenant**: Ensure you're in the correct tenant
4. **Review Permissions**: Verify you have appropriate permissions

```bash
# List role assignments on subscription
az role assignment list \
  --scope /subscriptions/<subscription-id> \
  --output table

# Check your access
az account show \
  --subscription <subscription-id>
```

## Related Documentation

- [Subscription Vending Overview](Subscription-Vending-Overview.md)
- [Deploying Subscription Vending](Deploying-Subscription-Vending.md)
- [Azure Subscription Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cost-management-billing/manage/)
- [Azure Management Groups](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/governance/management-groups/)
