code/scripts/ado/README.md, before:

# Azure DevOps Scripts

This directory contains scripts for managing Azure DevOps resources, including variable groups and deployment environments required by the infrastructure deployment pipelines.

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Create your configuration file
cp config.sh.example config.sh

# 2. Edit config.sh with your values
# Required values:
#   - AAD_TENANT_ID: Your Azure AD tenant ID
#   - ADO_PAT_TOKEN: Personal Access Token with Variable Groups and Environments permissions
#   - ADO_ORGANIZATION_URL: e.g., https://dev.azure.com/myorg
#   - ADO_PROJECT_NAME: Your Azure DevOps project name

# 3. Verify prerequisites
bash check-prerequisites.sh

# 4. Run complete ADO setup (creates variable groups and environments)
bash setup-ado.sh
```

## Scripts

| Script | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `setup-ado.sh` | **Master script** - Complete ADO setup (variable groups + environments) |
| `check-prerequisites.sh` | Verifies all prerequisites are met (CLI tools, extensions, config) |
| `create-variable-groups.sh` | Orchestrates creation of all variable groups |
| `create-environments.sh` | Creates Azure DevOps deployment environments |
| `create-common-variables.sh` | Creates/updates the `common-variables` variable group |
| `create-mg-hierarchy-variables.sh` | Creates/updates the `mg-hierarchy-variables` variable group |
| `create-monitoring-variables.sh` | Creates/updates the `monitoring-variables` variable group |
| `delete-variable-groups.sh` | Deletes variable groups (use with caution!) |
| `show-variable-groups.sh` | Displays details of existing variable groups |
| `lib.sh` | Shared library functions (variable groups + environments) |
| `config.sh` | Your configuration (gitignored - create from example) |
| `config.sh.example` | Configuration template with documentation |

## Variable Groups Created

### `common-variables`

This variable group is used by **all** infrastructure deployment pipelines and contains:

| Variable | Description | Source |
|----------|-------------|--------|
| `azureServiceConnection` | Name of the Azure service connection | `AZURE_SERVICE_CONNECTION_NAME` in config.sh |
| `deploymentLocation` | Default Azure region for deployments | `DEPLOYMENT_LOCATION` in config.sh |
| `azureTenantId` | Azure AD tenant ID | `AAD_TENANT_ID` in config.sh |
| `locationCode` | Default location code for naming (e.g., "cac") | `DEFAULT_LOCATION_CODE` in config.sh |
| `defaultOwner` | Default owner contact for resources | `DEFAULT_OWNER` in config.sh |
| `managedBy` | Infrastructure management tool (e.g., "Bicep") | `MANAGED_BY` in config.sh |
| `denySettingsMode` | Default deployment stack deny settings | `DEFAULT_DENY_SETTINGS_MODE` in config.sh |
| `actionOnUnmanage` | Default action on unmanaged resources | `DEFAULT_ACTION_ON_UNMANAGE` in config.sh |
| `environments` | Comma-separated list of valid environments | `ENVIRONMENTS` array in config.sh |

### `mg-hierarchy-variables`

This variable group is used by the management group hierarchy pipeline and contains:

| Variable | Description | Source |
|----------|-------------|--------|
| `orgName` | Organization name used for management group IDs (e.g., "contoso" → "mg-contoso") | `ORG_NAME` in config.sh |
| `orgDisplayName` | Organization display name shown in Azure Portal | `ORG_DISPLAY_NAME` in config.sh |

### `monitoring-variables`

This variable group is used by the monitoring infrastructure pipeline and contains:

| Variable | Description | Source |
|----------|-------------|--------|
| `monitoringSubscriptionId` | Subscription ID for monitoring resources | `MONITORING_SUBSCRIPTION_ID` in config.sh |
| `dataRetention` | Log Analytics data retention in days (30-730) | `DATA_RETENTION_DAYS` in config.sh |

> **Note:** The `monitoringSubscriptionId` can be left empty during initial setup. Set it after the monitoring subscription is created via the sub-vending pipeline.

## Deployment Environments

The `create-environments.sh` script creates Azure DevOps environments used by pipeline deployment jobs. Environments are configured via the `ENVIRONMENTS` array in `config.sh`:

```bash
# Default environments (in config.sh)
ENVIRONMENTS=("nonprod" "dev" "test" "uat" "staging" "prod" "live")
```

### Environment Validation in Pipelines

Pipelines validate the `environment` parameter at runtime against the `environments` variable stored in the `common-variables` group. This ensures:

- The environment parameter matches the authoritative list
- Early failure with clear error messages if invalid
- Consistency between YAML dropdown values and allowed environments

### Customizing Environments

To customize the environments list:

1. Edit `config.sh` and modify the `ENVIRONMENTS` array
2. Run `bash setup-ado.sh` to update the variable group and create environments
3. Update the `values:` list in pipeline YAML files (for the UI dropdown)

## Prerequisites

### Required Tools

1. **Azure CLI** (v2.50.0+)
   ```bash
   # macOS
   brew install azure-cli
   
   # Ubuntu/Debian
   curl -sL https://aka.ms/InstallAzureCLIDeb | sudo bash
   
   # Verify
   az --version
   ```

2. **Azure DevOps CLI Extension**
   ```bash
   az extension add --name azure-devops
   
   # Verify
   az extension show --name azure-devops
   ```

3. **jq** (for JSON processing)
   ```bash
   # macOS
   brew install jq
   
   # Ubuntu/Debian
   sudo apt-get install jq
   ```

### Azure DevOps PAT Token

Create a Personal Access Token at:
`https://dev.azure.com/{organization}/_usersSettings/tokens`

Required permissions:
- **Variable Groups**: Read & Manage
- **Environment**: Read & Manage
- **Build**: Read (optional, for pipeline integration)

## Configuration

### Required Variables

| Variable | Description | Example |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `AAD_TENANT_ID` | Azure AD tenant ID (GUID) | `12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012` |
| `ADO_PAT_TOKEN` | Personal Access Token | `xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx` |
| `ADO_ORGANIZATION_URL` | Azure DevOps org URL | `https://dev.azure.com/myorg` |
| `ADO_PROJECT_NAME` | Project name | `MyProject` |

### Optional Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `AZURE_SERVICE_CONNECTION_NAME` | Service connection name | `azure-infra-connection` |
| `DEPLOYMENT_LOCATION` | Default Azure region | `canadacentral` |
| `DEFAULT_LOCATION_CODE` | Default location code for naming | `cac` |
| `DEFAULT_OWNER` | Default owner contact for resources | (empty) |
| `MANAGED_BY` | Infrastructure management tool | `Bicep` |
| `DEFAULT_DENY_SETTINGS_MODE` | Deployment stack deny settings | `denyWriteAndDelete` |
| `DEFAULT_ACTION_ON_UNMANAGE` | Action on unmanaged resources | `detachAll` |
| `ORG_NAME` | Organization name for management group IDs | `org` |
| `ORG_DISPLAY_NAME` | Organization display name | `Organization Name` |
| `MONITORING_SUBSCRIPTION_ID` | Monitoring subscription ID | (empty) |
| `DATA_RETENTION_DAYS` | Log Analytics data retention | `60` |
| `ENVIRONMENTS` | Array of deployment environments | `("nonprod" "dev" "test" "uat" "staging" "prod" "live")` |

## Usage Examples

### Complete ADO Setup (Recommended)
```bash
# Run full setup (variable groups + environments)
bash setup-ado.sh

# Dry run to see what would be done
bash setup-ado.sh --dry-run
```

### Check Prerequisites
```bash
bash check-prerequisites.sh
```

### Create Variable Groups Only
```bash
bash create-variable-groups.sh

# Dry run
bash create-variable-groups.sh --dry-run
```

### Create Environments Only
```bash
bash create-environments.sh

# Dry run
bash create-environments.sh --dry-run

# List existing environments
bash create-environments.sh --list
```

### List Existing Variable Groups
```bash
bash create-variable-groups.sh --list
# or
bash show-variable-groups.sh --list
```

### Show Variable Group Details
```bash
./show-variable-groups.sh common-variables
# or show all
./show-variable-groups.sh --all
```

### Delete Variable Groups
```bash
# Delete specific group
bash delete-variable-groups.sh common-variables

# Delete all managed groups
bash delete-variable-groups.sh --all

# Force delete without confirmation
bash delete-variable-groups.sh --all --force
```

## Pipelines Using These Variable Groups

All infrastructure pipelines in `/code/pipelines/` reference the `common-variables` group:

- `hub-pipeline.yaml` - Hub networking infrastructure
- `spoke-networking-pipeline.yaml` - Spoke networking
- `governance-pipeline.yaml` - Governance policies
- `mg-hierarchy-pipeline.yaml` - Management group hierarchy (also uses `mg-hierarchy-variables`)
- `monitoring-pipeline.yaml` - Monitoring infrastructure (also uses `monitoring-variables`)
- `sub-vending-pipeline.yaml` - Subscription vending
- `cloudops-pipeline.yaml` - CloudOps (Managed DevOps Pools)
- `cloudops-devcenter-pipeline.yaml` - DevCenter infrastructure

## Troubleshooting

### "Azure DevOps extension is not installed"
```bash
az extension add --name azure-devops
```

### "Failed to connect to Azure DevOps"
1. Verify your PAT token hasn't expired
2. Check the organization URL is correct
3. Ensure the PAT has required permissions

### "Variable group not found"
The group may not exist yet. Run:
```bash
bash create-variable-groups.sh
```

### "Environment could not be found"
The environment may not exist yet. Run:
```bash
bash create-environments.sh
```

### "Access denied"
Your PAT needs these permissions:
- Variable Groups: Read & Manage
- Environment: Read & Manage

## Security Notes

- `config.sh` is gitignored and should **never** be committed
- PAT tokens should be rotated regularly
- Consider using Azure Key Vault for production secrets
- The scripts mask sensitive values in output where possible

Commit message:

Update ADO scripts and documentation for improved clarity on prerequisites and permissions
This commit refines the prerequisites check script, updates the README, and modifies example configuration files to clarify the required Personal Access Token (PAT) permissions for Azure DevOps setup. The changes include enhanced descriptions of required permissions for variable groups, environments, and project access, ensuring users have clear guidance for successful execution of ADO scripts. Additionally, comments in the create-environments.sh and lib.sh scripts are updated to reflect these changes.

code/scripts/ado/README.md, after:

# Azure DevOps Scripts

This directory contains scripts for managing Azure DevOps resources, including variable groups and deployment environments required by the infrastructure deployment pipelines.

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Create your configuration file
cp config.sh.example config.sh

# 2. Edit config.sh with your values
# Required values:
#   - AAD_TENANT_ID: Your Azure AD tenant ID
#   - ADO_PAT_TOKEN: Personal Access Token with Variable Groups and Environments permissions
#   - ADO_ORGANIZATION_URL: e.g., https://dev.azure.com/myorg
#   - ADO_PROJECT_NAME: Your Azure DevOps project name

# 3. Verify prerequisites
bash check-prerequisites.sh

# 4. Run complete ADO setup (creates variable groups and environments)
bash setup-ado.sh
```

## Scripts

| Script | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `setup-ado.sh` | **Master script** - Complete ADO setup (variable groups + environments) |
| `check-prerequisites.sh` | Verifies all prerequisites are met (CLI tools, extensions, config) |
| `create-variable-groups.sh` | Orchestrates creation of all variable groups |
| `create-environments.sh` | Creates Azure DevOps deployment environments |
| `create-common-variables.sh` | Creates/updates the `common-variables` variable group |
| `create-mg-hierarchy-variables.sh` | Creates/updates the `mg-hierarchy-variables` variable group |
| `create-monitoring-variables.sh` | Creates/updates the `monitoring-variables` variable group |
| `delete-variable-groups.sh` | Deletes variable groups (use with caution!) |
| `show-variable-groups.sh` | Displays details of existing variable groups |
| `lib.sh` | Shared library functions (variable groups + environments) |
| `config.sh` | Your configuration (gitignored - create from example) |
| `config.sh.example` | Configuration template with documentation |

## Variable Groups Created

### `common-variables`

This variable group is used by **all** infrastructure deployment pipelines and contains:

| Variable | Description | Source |
|----------|-------------|--------|
| `azureServiceConnection` | Name of the Azure service connection | `AZURE_SERVICE_CONNECTION_NAME` in config.sh |
| `deploymentLocation` | Default Azure region for deployments | `DEPLOYMENT_LOCATION` in config.sh |
| `azureTenantId` | Azure AD tenant ID | `AAD_TENANT_ID` in config.sh |
| `locationCode` | Default location code for naming (e.g., "cac") | `DEFAULT_LOCATION_CODE` in config.sh |
| `defaultOwner` | Default owner contact for resources | `DEFAULT_OWNER` in config.sh |
| `managedBy` | Infrastructure management tool (e.g., "Bicep") | `MANAGED_BY` in config.sh |
| `denySettingsMode` | Default deployment stack deny settings | `DEFAULT_DENY_SETTINGS_MODE` in config.sh |
| `actionOnUnmanage` | Default action on unmanaged resources | `DEFAULT_ACTION_ON_UNMANAGE` in config.sh |
| `environments` | Comma-separated list of valid environments | `ENVIRONMENTS` array in config.sh |

### `mg-hierarchy-variables`

This variable group is used by the management group hierarchy pipeline and contains:

| Variable | Description | Source |
|----------|-------------|--------|
| `orgName` | Organization name used for management group IDs (e.g., "contoso" → "mg-contoso") | `ORG_NAME` in config.sh |
| `orgDisplayName` | Organization display name shown in Azure Portal | `ORG_DISPLAY_NAME` in config.sh |

### `monitoring-variables`

This variable group is used by the monitoring infrastructure pipeline and contains:

| Variable | Description | Source |
|----------|-------------|--------|
| `monitoringSubscriptionId` | Subscription ID for monitoring resources | `MONITORING_SUBSCRIPTION_ID` in config.sh |
| `dataRetention` | Log Analytics data retention in days (30-730) | `DATA_RETENTION_DAYS` in config.sh |

> **Note:** The `monitoringSubscriptionId` can be left empty during initial setup. Set it after the monitoring subscription is created via the sub-vending pipeline.

## Deployment Environments

The `create-environments.sh` script creates Azure DevOps environments used by pipeline deployment jobs. Environments are configured via the `ENVIRONMENTS` array in `config.sh`:

```bash
# Default environments (in config.sh)
ENVIRONMENTS=("nonprod" "dev" "test" "uat" "staging" "prod" "live")
```

### Environment Validation in Pipelines

Pipelines validate the `environment` parameter at runtime against the `environments` variable stored in the `common-variables` group. This ensures:

- The environment parameter matches the authoritative list
- Early failure with clear error messages if invalid
- Consistency between YAML dropdown values and allowed environments

### Customizing Environments

To customize the environments list:

1. Edit `config.sh` and modify the `ENVIRONMENTS` array
2. Run `bash setup-ado.sh` to update the variable group and create environments
3. Update the `values:` list in pipeline YAML files (for the UI dropdown)

## Prerequisites

### Required Tools

1. **Azure CLI** (v2.50.0+)
   ```bash
   # macOS
   brew install azure-cli
   
   # Ubuntu/Debian
   curl -sL https://aka.ms/InstallAzureCLIDeb | sudo bash
   
   # Verify
   az --version
   ```

2. **Azure DevOps CLI Extension**
   ```bash
   az extension add --name azure-devops
   
   # Verify
   az extension show --name azure-devops
   ```

3. **jq** (for JSON processing)
   ```bash
   # macOS
   brew install jq
   
   # Ubuntu/Debian
   sudo apt-get install jq
   ```

### Azure DevOps PAT Token

Create a Personal Access Token at:
`https://dev.azure.com/{organization}/_usersSettings/tokens`

**Required permissions** (all are necessary for `setup-ado.sh` to work):

| Scope | Permission | Location in PAT UI |
|-------|------------|-------------------|
| Variable Groups | Read & Manage | Pipelines → Variable Groups |
| Environment | Read & Manage | Pipelines → Environment |
| Project and Team | Read | Project → Read |

**Optional permissions** (for additional automation):

| Scope | Permission | Purpose |
|-------|------------|---------|
| Build | Read & Execute | Trigger/manage pipelines |
| Service Connections | Read & Query | Verify service connections |

> **Tip**: When creating the PAT, expand the "Pipelines" section to find both "Variable Groups" and "Environment" permissions.

## Configuration

### Required Variables

| Variable | Description | Example |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `AAD_TENANT_ID` | Azure AD tenant ID (GUID) | `12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012` |
| `ADO_PAT_TOKEN` | Personal Access Token | `xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx` |
| `ADO_ORGANIZATION_URL` | Azure DevOps org URL | `https://dev.azure.com/myorg` |
| `ADO_PROJECT_NAME` | Project name | `MyProject` |

### Optional Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `AZURE_SERVICE_CONNECTION_NAME` | Service connection name | `azure-infra-connection` |
| `DEPLOYMENT_LOCATION` | Default Azure region | `canadacentral` |
| `DEFAULT_LOCATION_CODE` | Default location code for naming | `cac` |
| `DEFAULT_OWNER` | Default owner contact for resources | (empty) |
| `MANAGED_BY` | Infrastructure management tool | `Bicep` |
| `DEFAULT_DENY_SETTINGS_MODE` | Deployment stack deny settings | `denyWriteAndDelete` |
| `DEFAULT_ACTION_ON_UNMANAGE` | Action on unmanaged resources | `detachAll` |
| `ORG_NAME` | Organization name for management group IDs | `org` |
| `ORG_DISPLAY_NAME` | Organization display name | `Organization Name` |
| `MONITORING_SUBSCRIPTION_ID` | Monitoring subscription ID | (empty) |
| `DATA_RETENTION_DAYS` | Log Analytics data retention | `60` |
| `ENVIRONMENTS` | Array of deployment environments | `("nonprod" "dev" "test" "uat" "staging" "prod" "live")` |

## Usage Examples

### Complete ADO Setup (Recommended)
```bash
# Run full setup (variable groups + environments)
bash setup-ado.sh

# Dry run to see what would be done
bash setup-ado.sh --dry-run
```

### Check Prerequisites
```bash
bash check-prerequisites.sh
```

### Create Variable Groups Only
```bash
bash create-variable-groups.sh

# Dry run
bash create-variable-groups.sh --dry-run
```

### Create Environments Only
```bash
bash create-environments.sh

# Dry run
bash create-environments.sh --dry-run

# List existing environments
bash create-environments.sh --list
```

### List Existing Variable Groups
```bash
bash create-variable-groups.sh --list
# or
bash show-variable-groups.sh --list
```

### Show Variable Group Details
```bash
./show-variable-groups.sh common-variables
# or show all
./show-variable-groups.sh --all
```

### Delete Variable Groups
```bash
# Delete specific group
bash delete-variable-groups.sh common-variables

# Delete all managed groups
bash delete-variable-groups.sh --all

# Force delete without confirmation
bash delete-variable-groups.sh --all --force
```

## Pipelines Using These Variable Groups

All infrastructure pipelines in `/code/pipelines/` reference the `common-variables` group:

- `hub-pipeline.yaml` - Hub networking infrastructure
- `spoke-networking-pipeline.yaml` - Spoke networking
- `governance-pipeline.yaml` - Governance policies
- `mg-hierarchy-pipeline.yaml` - Management group hierarchy (also uses `mg-hierarchy-variables`)
- `monitoring-pipeline.yaml` - Monitoring infrastructure (also uses `monitoring-variables`)
- `sub-vending-pipeline.yaml` - Subscription vending
- `cloudops-pipeline.yaml` - CloudOps (Managed DevOps Pools)
- `cloudops-devcenter-pipeline.yaml` - DevCenter infrastructure

## Troubleshooting

### "Azure DevOps extension is not installed"
```bash
az extension add --name azure-devops
```

### "Failed to connect to Azure DevOps"
1. Verify your PAT token hasn't expired
2. Check the organization URL is correct
3. Ensure the PAT has required permissions

### "Variable group not found"
The group may not exist yet. Run:
```bash
bash create-variable-groups.sh
```

### "Environment could not be found"
The environment may not exist yet. Run:
```bash
bash create-environments.sh
```

### "Access denied" or "Failed to create environment"
Your PAT needs these permissions (all under "Pipelines" in the PAT creation UI):
- **Variable Groups**: Read & Manage
- **Environment**: Read & Manage

Also required (under "Project"):
- **Project and Team**: Read

Regenerate your PAT with these permissions and update `config.sh`.

## Security Notes

- `config.sh` is gitignored and should **never** be committed
- PAT tokens should be rotated regularly
- Consider using Azure Key Vault for production secrets
- The scripts mask sensitive values in output where possible
